Prep time: 15 minutes
Cooking time: 40 minutes
Serves: 6
Dreamy Cauliflower Soup
The cauliflower is a gloriously humble vegetable with a wonderful
subtle creamy flavour that definitely brings its A-game when
It's turned into a soup. This is a seriously simple midweek meal
solution whereby dinner will be on the table in under an hour. It's
So sumptuous to eat that it distracts little people from the fact the
soup is made almost entirely of veges. It's also such an impressive
dish that it lends itself perfectly to serving as an entrée when
you have guests over have it ready to go in the fridge and just
freshen it up with herbs and splashes of cream before serving.
50g butter
2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1 large onion, chopped
1 leek, chopped
2 stalks celery, chopped
2 tsp chopped fresh thyme or
sage
4 cloves garlic, roughly
chopped
1kg cauliflower, washed and
finely chopped
5 cups reduced-salt chicken or
vegetable stock
1 tsp ground nutmeg
4 tsp ground white pepper
small pinch cayenne pepper or
chilli (optional)
1 cup cream, plus extra for
serving
% cup crème fraiche
cup freshly grated Parmesan
2 tsp lemon juice
salt
chopped fresh herbs (thyme,
parsley, chives) to serve
Heat the butter and oil in a large stockpot over a medium heat.
Add the onion, leek, celery and thyme or sage and cook, stirring
occasionally, for about 10 minutes. Add the garlic and continue to
cook until the mixture is soft.
Add the chopped cauliflower and stock cover with a lid and simmer
gently for about 20 minutes, or until the cauliflower is very soft. Add
the nutmeg, white pepper and cayenne or chilli, and simmer for
another 5 minutes.
Use a stick blender to blend the soup to a smooth purée. If you want
to use a blender, allow the soup to cool a bit first.
Add the cream and crème fraiche and stir through the cheese to
melt. Add the lemon juice and season to taste with salt.
Serve the soup in bowls scattered with fresh herbs and a splash of
extra cream with hunks of fresh buttered bread or toast for the partie
bread on page 214)
Chelsea's
u ps
.
S
To buck this soup up, feel free to add a chopped
adding the cauliflower - you may need a little
